fix: Start listening after schema cache load (#4880)
PostgREST/postgrest: CHANGELOG.md

- Restore Listener query shape so it can be found in pg_stat_activity by @mkleczek in #4857 #4859
- The LISTEN channel now automatically recovers when it stops working due to a PostgreSQL bug @laurenceisla in #3147
- Fix misleading "Functions" name on schema cache summary in startup logs by @taimoorzaeem in #4821

> - Do not listen on main socket until schema cache is loaded by @mkleczek in #4880

Reviewer: Should also have a `### Changed` entry, let's put it as breaking change to be extra safe.

Author: > Should also have a `### Changed` entry, let's put it as breaking change to be extra safe.

@steve-chavez 
Do you mean it should have entries in both `Changed` and `Fixed`? Or move it from `Fixed` to `Changed`?
Do you also want me to change the commit prefix?

Reviewer: > Do you mean it should have entries in both Changed and Fixed?

Yes, both.

- Build the minimal docker image for aarch64-linux by @wolfgangwalther in #4193
- The name of an embedded table can no longer be used in filters if it has an alias by @laurenceisla in #4075
  + e.g. `?select=alias:table(*)&table.id=eq.1` is not possible anymore, use `?select=alias:table(*)&alias.id=eq.1` instead.

> - Do not listen on main socket until schema cache is loaded by @mkleczek in #4880

Reviewer: This needs to be more user facing:
```suggestion
- When starting up, PostgREST will now give `connection refused` errors until its schema cache is loaded  @mkleczek in #4880
  + It used to give 503 status responses.
```

Author: Fixed

- Build the minimal docker image for aarch64-linux by @wolfgangwalther in #4193
- The name of an embedded table can no longer be used in filters if it has an alias by @laurenceisla in #4075
  + e.g. `?select=alias:table(*)&table.id=eq.1` is not possible anymore, use `?select=alias:table(*)&alias.id=eq.1` instead.
- When starting up, PostgREST will now give `connection refused` errors until its schema cache is loaded  @mkleczek in #4880

>   It used to give 503 status responses.

Reviewer: @mkleczek So as it is now, both of these changelog entries are no longer correct right?

> Change it as it is right now in this PR (ie. wait for first schema cache load to finish, then listen)

What would be the benefit for the user here in the above case? I'm finding hard to verbalize how the PR can fit as feature or fix.

Author: > @mkleczek So as it is now, both of these changelog entries are no longer correct right?
> 
> > Change it as it is right now in this PR (ie. wait for first schema cache load to finish, then listen)
> 
> What would be the benefit for the user here in the above case? I'm finding hard to verbalize how the PR can fit as feature or fix.

1. They won't get errors during PostgREST startup.
2. It is possible to use `SO_REUSEPORT` to implement zero-downtime upgrades.

Reviewer: > It is possible to use SO_REUSEPORT to implement zero-downtime upgrades.

This would be better tied to #4703 right?

> They won't get errors during PostgREST startup.

This is false? I mean we already agreed that things like connection error or statement timeout can devolve into 503, so we can't make that assertion.

Author: > > It is possible to use SO_REUSEPORT to implement zero-downtime upgrades.
> 
> This would be better tied to #4703 right?
> 
> > They won't get errors during PostgREST startup.
> 
> This is false?

Not really - more specifically: they won't get errors during normal PostgREST startup (ie. when there are no errors).

Reviewer: > Not really - more specifically: they won't get errors during normal PostgREST startup (ie. when there are no errors).

Let's clarify, so the normal startup (or happy path) is when db is up and PostgREST starts afterwards. Under this scenario and as it is now, we can give 503s just because it can take a while to load the schema cache right?

Ok ok, then I think we should change the CHANGELOG like:

```
## Fixed

- Stop reporting 503s errors unnecessarily while the schema cache is loading at startup
```

In this case there should be no additions on the `CHANGES` section.

WDYT?

---

Thanks for bearing up with me, took me a while to understand this :pray:

Author: > Ok ok, then I think we should change the CHANGELOG like:
> 
> ```
> ## Fixed
> 
> - Stop reporting 503s errors unnecessarily while the schema cache is loading at startup
> ```
> 
> In this case there should be no additions on the `CHANGES` section.
> 
> WDYT?

Good idea. Fixed.

> 
> Thanks for bearing up with me, took me a while to understand this 🙏

Thank you for bearing up with me - I can be sounding impatient sometimes, apologies.

- Build the minimal docker image for aarch64-linux by @wolfgangwalther in #4193
- The name of an embedded table can no longer be used in filters if it has an alias by @laurenceisla in #4075
  + e.g. `?select=alias:table(*)&table.id=eq.1` is not possible anymore, use `?select=alias:table(*)&alias.id=eq.1` instead.

> - Do not listen on main socket until schema cache is loaded by @mkleczek in #4880

Reviewer: Hm, both these entries should be switched places. We've always put the more descriptive change in `Changed`.

Author: Fixed
